# Movie Recommendation System


##Technology Used





## Table of Contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Features](#features)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Data](#data)
- [Technologies Used](#technologies-used)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Introduction

Welcome to the Movie Recommendation System! This project is designed to help users discover new movies based on their preferences and viewing history. Whether you're a movie enthusiast or just looking for something to watch, our system has you covered. It utilizes advanced algorithms to provide personalized movie recommendations, making your movie-watching experience more enjoyable.

## Features

- Personalized movie recommendations based on user preferences.
- User-friendly interface for easy navigation.
- Integration with popular movie databases for up-to-date information.
- User profiles to track viewing history and improve recommendations over time.
- Search functionality to find specific movies.
- Rating and review system to share your thoughts with the community.



## Installation

To run this Movie Recommendation System on your local machine, follow these steps:

1. Clone this repository to your local machine using `git clone https://github.com/mallikarjunadinesh/Movie-Recommendation-System.git`.
2. Navigate to the project directory using `cd Movie-Recommendation-System`.
3. Install the required dependencies with `pip install -r requirements.txt`.
4. pip install pandas
5. pip install numpy

## Usage

The user must give the name of the movie that he need similar movies like that For Example,if the user saw Avatar  movie and he wants to see similar movies like Avatar then the user needs to give input as Avatar so that our model will gives 10 similar movies to Avatar based on the similarity of the Genre and Description our model will predict the movies for the user.4


## Dataset

Datasetlink1 :'../input/tmdb-movie-metadata/tmdb_5000_credits.csv'

Datasetlink2 :'../input/tmdb-movie-metadata/tmdb_5000_movies.csv'


##Description about DataSets

The first dataset contains the following features:-

movie_id - A unique identifier for each movie.
cast - The name of lead and supporting actors.
crew - The name of Director, Editor, Composer, Writer etc.


The second dataset has the following features:-

budget - The budget in which the movie was made.
genre - The genre of the movie, Action, Comedy ,Thriller etc.
homepage - A link to the homepage of the movie.
id - This is infact the movie_id as in the first dataset.
keywords - The keywords or tags related to the movie.
original_language - The language in which the movie was made.
original_title - The title of the movie before translation or adaptation.
overview - A brief description of the movie.
popularity - A numeric quantity specifying the movie popularity.
production_companies - The production house of the movie.
production_countries - The country in which it was produced.
release_date - The date on which it was released.
revenue - The worldwide revenue generated by the movie.
runtime - The running time of the movie in minutes.
status - "Released" or "Rumored".
tagline - Movie's tagline.
title - Title of the movie.
vote_average - average ratings the movie recieved
vote_count - the count of votes recieved.





  

## Contributing

We welcome contributions to the Movie Recommendation System project! If you'd like to contribute:

1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a new branch for your feature or bug fix.
3. Make your changes and commit them with clear and concise commit messages.
4. Push your changes to your fork.
5. Submit a pull request to the main repository.



---
